[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: The
television show "Vikings"
brought about curiosity
among many to know more about
the ancient culture.
What it didn't feature
was the deep mysticism.
Rather, brute force.
Survival and dominance were
the way of life depicted,
but there was a hidden
spiritual aspect
of the Viking
culture that worked
through runes, which we know
today as a divination tube.
Kaedrich Olsen is
with us to talk
about the runes, the golden
shadow, and pagan masculinity
via the Norse culture.
So I have to say,
looking at your rings,
looking at your tattoos,
knowing your passion,
you've been in this
for a really long time.
I would have to--
because we're at
Gaia, we can say this.
I would have to guess this
is something you've carried
forward for many lifetimes.
You're very, very knowledgeable,
but completely ensconced
in that Norse tradition.
>> KAEDRICH OLSEN: Absolutely.
It's been a part of who I
am probably for lifetimes.
>> REGINA: That's
what I'm thinking.
You brought this
through from the day.
So you might be
thinking-- you might
be speaking to us from the
past with some great authority.
And I'm setting it up
that way because that's
what I believe to be true.
>> OLSEN: Thank you.
>> REGINA: So first of all,
let's talk about when you were
a little kid, though, when this
stuff started poking through.
Because all of us that
have had lifetimes
in other spaces, other cultures,
with really deep interests,
it usually pokes its little head
up somewhere when we're little.
So let's talk about
you as a child
and how you started developing
your fascination with runes
and the Norse culture.
>> OLSEN: Yeah.
It was actually an interesting
step by step process.
In my parents' home
in the basement,
we had a library full of books.
Anything that you could possibly
want to read on, encyclopedias.
We had the old Gavin
and Yvonne Frost
books on magic and witchcraft.
And then there was
my favorite book
that I devoured as
a young teenager,
"Secret Teachings of all Ages."
And I would pore through that.
And I realized that all of these
different mystical traditions
were saying the same
thing over and over.
They were just using different
words and different terms.
And he had this interesting
little section in there
about the Odinic mysteries
that fascinated me.
And about that same time, I
got a hold of a book of runes.
I was listening to some pretty
crazy music at the time.
I still kind of do.
It kind of goes
with the territory.
>> REGINA: Smoking crazy
stuff at the same time too?
>> OLSEN: Nope.
I try to keep a clear head.
But the music pointed
me in that direction,
and I came across a book, "The
Way of Wyrd," by Brian Bates.
>> REGINA: The way of what?
>> OLSEN: Wyrd.
W-Y-R-D, wyrd.
And properly pronounced
"vird," but that's OK.
We'll get to that another time.
And all of these three
things converged.
And, well, I tapped into it
and I started using the runes.
And it was like it clicked.
Just every little piece clicked.
And the more I dove into
it, the deeper the well
got, to the point where
I started studying
the original languages.
I can stumble and bash my
way through old Norse poetry.
And I have the mystical mindset
from growing up with this way,
working with the
different pagan groups.
But I've always been
focused on the Norse,
and so I can translate the old
Norse with a mystical mindset
to catch the things that some
of these great translators
do miss, because they don't
have the mystical mindset.
And I started applying
that through my life,
throughout my entire lifetime
teaching, leading groups,
doing rituals,
that sort of thing.
>> REGINA: You
also, I understand,
were having
experiences as a youth,
as well as what
you were studying.
Having paranormal experiences
and interfacing a little bit
with the other realms.
Let's talk about
that, because we're
going to go there later
in the conversation.
And also how that interface
with or expressed itself
in the Norse culture.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
And that's one of the good
things about-- since we're here
at Gaia, we can talk about
the wacky woo-woo stuff.
>> REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
>> OLSEN: I did live in a
house that was very haunted.
You could set something
down, turn around,
and it would be gone.
You would hear footsteps
walking down a hallway,
but not seeing anybody
in the hallway.
Upstairs, you would hear
the toilet flush downstairs.
It was all sorts of kind of
wonky little things going on.
But all the while, I had
what they call whispers now.
Little voices that would
say, hey, go look at this.
Hey, go do this.
How about you investigate this?
And here's some
download of information
that would just kind
of dump into my head.
I'm like, what?
And all the while, I'm
skeptical, mind you.
I'm not going to take it as
face value, going, OK, yeah,
I'm super great and wonderful.
I've got these people
talking in my head.
No, no.
It was like, OK, I'm
making this stuff up.
This is just me.
But I'll write it down,
and they're like, OK.
We'll be patient with you.
We'll let you see.
And then out in the real world,
things would just play out
just like they said they would.
I'm like, oh.
>> REGINA: And how old were
you when all these experiences
began?
>> OLSEN: Oh, I remember being
on a playground in elementary
school and hearing it.
>> REGINA: So you were being
whispered to by the we folk,
or whomever, or your
higher guidance, yeah.
>> OLSEN: Yeah, higher guidance.
That is definitely,
absolutely one of those.
At a certain point, I
realized one of those whispers
was my own higher self
interacting with me
and taking a personal
interest in my own evolution
spiritually.
But there've been a number of
voices throughout the years.
You know, wake up in
the middle of the night,
hey, pick up your book.
Read this.
I'm like, OK, I'll read that.
No, no, no.
OK, great.
The next day, a
book will literally
be dropped on my desk
expounding upon that one.
I'm like, OK, I get it.
And then over the
years, there would
be these downloads
that would come
in that may only be five
minutes as I'm taking a walk,
or meditating, or whatever.
But I would be at the
computer for hours
turning what this ball
of information they
gave to me into a line.
But I had to set
a limit with them,
because I have hundreds
of pages of great theory
that I'm like, great.
What is the point
of this theory?
Give me the practical
application.
Let's make this useful
for people in their lives
so they can change their
lives, make themselves better.
Because this theory is
nonsense if you can't use it.
And for the past 10 years
or so, they've been saying,
here, here's these things that
you can learn to apply it.
Here are these things you
can learn to apply it.
Now, here in the
middle of night,
we're going to give you this
dream on doing some shadow
clearing work, healing
soul wound work,
and all of this kind of stuff
that keeps coming through.
And I'm like, wow.
And I'm like, OK.
Let's put together a test
group and see if there's
some validity to this.
And then I see it
and I'm, like, OK,
you guys are still spot
on after all these years.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
Higher guidance usually is
if it's a clear communication
path.
As long as ego's not in
the way, it works, right?
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So we're going to talk about
the golden shadow and shadow
work in a little bit.
What I'd like to do
is kind of dive into--
so people-- let's say
some of our viewers
have watched "Vikings."
You know, it's brutal.
I could only watch a few.
>> OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
>> REGINA: You know, but let
me just toss something in here,
and I mentioned it
in another interview.
I'm a student of hermetics
and have been for many years.
And one kind of
block of knowledge
that I was exposed to had
to do with Atlantean times
and what happened as Atlantis,
as people both emigrated
from Atlantis while it
was still intact, and also
at the time of the calamities,
where they were forced
to emigrate if they survived.
And it talked about some
of the people who had--
who were more seafaring, who had
made it over into Scandinavia
and mated with the
indigenous Norse people
to create almost kind of a
super strain of individual
that were quite strong, quite
hardy, larger in stature,
and became known as what
we call Vikings today.
So I don't know how
that lands with you.
But you know more about the
mystical side of the culture.
So let's not look at the brute
side, but what that could mean.
Because if they did come from
Atlantean times in the north,
they, as the druids
did, then these people
were imbued with great
amounts of not only esoteric,
but practical knowledge.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
In fact, the word Viking,
if we pronounce it
in the old language, "vicking,"
means someone from the wick,
or a straight of water.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> OLSEN: It was more of a part
time summer job that was just
people who traveled,
rather than actual culture,
or of an ethnicity, or anything.
It was just a job.
And when they first started
off, the Vikings went out
and they mainly did
trading, some raiding,
that was part of it.
>> REGINA: Trading and raiding.
Because they could.
>> OLSEN: Yeah, and
some colonization.
Right.
And eventually, though,
in the Norse tales,
in the sagas of
themselves, the word Viking
actually became a scoundrel,
a despot, like a pirate.
>> REGINA: Which is how
they're depicted today.
>> OLSEN: Right.
They were pretty well lambasted
by the Norse people themselves.
And then somehow
in the modern time,
we picked up the term Viking
and then romanticized it.
I'll actually
attribute that probably
to the early 20th century,
with the Wagnerians.
They kind of recovered that
one and they did some shifts.
But under the
surface of all that,
because we see the brutality.
And in the weird case of the
Vikings, I will say for them,
history was written
by the sore losers.
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>> OLSEN: Instead of
actually by themselves,
because a lot of people
had to play up, like, oh,
these big brutes came in and--
>> REGINA: So let's talk that.
Let's talk about the
history of the sore losers.
Who lost?
>> OLSEN: Sure.
In a temple, monastery, when
the Vikings raided on Easter
Sunday, that sure,
they may not have
been able to defend themselves,
because they were monks.
And yes, it was a full
on raid, absolutely.
But how are these monks
going to write back home
to the main church
in Rome to say, hey,
these guys came in and
took all of our gold?
They're going to write,
no, they were bloodthirsty.
They were vicious.
They were horrible and terrible.
They came and killed and
destroyed everything.
And then the church will go, oh.
There's a village I can't
quite remember the name of.
Even the Romans wrote
about how that these
were bloodthirsty, awful
people, creating weapons
that they were very
warlike and terrible,
and they need to be eradicated.
So, of course, they came through
and plowed down the village.
Recently, like, within
the past 10 years,
archaeologists have
actually found that village
and dug it up, and found
out that there was not
a single sign of weapon
making whatsoever.
This was Roman propaganda
to take over the land.
>> REGINA: Well, of course.
I mean, we know that
part of history,
so that makes perfect sense.
So essentially,
there's no denying
that one can exploit
situation and try
to loot a place a little bit.
But that's very different
than dominating and wiping out
a citizenry, for example, in
a bloodthirsty manner, which
is how it continues
to be depicted,
but in a sexy,
more glamorous way.
>> OLSEN: There is no doubt
it was a violent culture,
as were all cultures
at the time.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I think we have to
remember that was the case.
These were-- this
was tribal living.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
And resources were
scarce, and they did have
to shore up their resources.
The thing that they excelled
at, though, with their ships.
Their ships took on
such a little water
that they could go down
swiftly down the rivers
and do their raids
real quick and back out
before a lot of the
villagers knew what happened.
And that is kind
of what gave them
the reputation of being so
violent, so bloodthirsty.
But in truth, if we
really look at it
from a historical
perspective, they
were no more than any
other culture at the time.
They just had better boats.
>> REGINA: Well, the reason
I brought up that Atlantean
connection is because, A,
they had better technology.
And they may have had
some kind of stamina
and physical prowess that
made it possible to do
some of the feats they did.
You know, it's possible.
If you're taking blood from
another continent and mixing,
this happens all the time.
Hybridized species.
We're all hybridized to
one degree or another.
So they become-- it just takes
on a little more interest,
especially hybridized knowledge.
And so that's where we get
into, when we look at the druids
and we look at the nature of
the way the knowledge was passed
on orally, and
through symbolism,
the same thing with
the Norsemen, right?
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: So let's talk
about the runic tradition,
what runes initially were,
what they represented.
Because no one
can read them now.
I mean, you can go and
have a rune reading,
but it doesn't mean anything
for us looking at the runes.
But it means something to you.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
And let me give
you three pathways
for how the runes came into
being as we know them today.
Building off of the
hermetic tradition
and the ancient tradition
that could be from Atlantis,
the Norse lore
specifically tells us
that the Aesir, the high gods
of the Norse, came from Asia,
came from the Far East.
It's in there in a
few different places.
And along the way,
Odin, the high god,
the chieftain of all the gods--
>> REGINA: Odin, as we say.
>> OLSEN: Right.
Odin, "othin."
I'm going to say things
a little bit funny.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And I'll just try to interpret
in case someone's thinking,
"othin?"
I've never heard of "othin."
But you've heard of Odin.
>> OLSEN: Odin, yes.
He was the high
god of the Aesir.
And the lore tells
us he traveled
throughout many
different lands, teaching
his wisdom to these
many different cultures.
And they call him
by various names,
by the name that they
understood him to be.
And people who now
study languages
understand that there was an
old proto Indo-European language
that was shared by
the Norse people
and shared by the Vedic people.
And most likely, the Aesir, who
came to the Norse from Asia,
were actually the Asuras from
the Vedic tradition there,
another type of deity.
They were the devas,
that were the high gods.
But the Asuras were a
bit more rebellious,
which the lore even talks
about the Aesir being
rebellious to the old gods.
So it's even in there.
But as they came
through the lands,
they taught and they did
so many different things.
And so he definitely
has this teaching.
And if we look to some of
these ancient Vedic teachings,
we find some of the words
of Vishnu being parroted
by Odin when he talks about
the greatest sacrifice of self
to the self.
That's in the Bhagavad Gita,
the sacrifice of self to self.
The stuff that Odin
teaches the Norse we
find in the hermetic tradition
through Thoth, Hermes,
Trismegistus, and I've got
a good friend in Turkey
who shares with all of
these different overlaps
from other cultures that are
in that area with the teachings
of Odin.
So we see Odin as this
long lineage coming
from this other
culture, probably
a very immortal person.
Maybe even still
being alive today,
teaching people in this way.
>> REGINA: Yes, and I think it's
important for us to understand
that, when you're looking at
the pantheon of gods in any
culture, these are usually the
very same entities that have
shown up repeatedly
throughout history globally.
A group of beings who
came to offer knowledge,
to offer guidance,
to offer protection,
sometimes to provoke.
>> OLSEN: Indeed.
>> REGINA: I mean, you have the
whole pantheon of characters,
right?
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: And so of course
they're showing up in the North
mythology under whatever
the name of the day is,
but very similar.
It makes sense that you would
find the exact same teachings
elsewhere historically.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: So now what
about the runes themselves?
Because that's your thing,
that's your specialty.
I mean, among other
things, but yeah.
>> OLSEN: And that
goes back to Odin.
In the mythological
tale of Odin,
he hung himself upon the world
tree Yggdrasil for nine nights.
And in the shamanic
practice that he did,
peered into the
depths to the abyss
and were able to see the runes
that already were created.
And then with a roaring
cry, he gathered them up
and fell back from the tree.
Some he gave to the high gods.
Some he gave to the
fertility gods, the Vanir.
giants, some to human,
some he kept for himself.
But what this tells us, and
specifically in that passage,
is that the runes existed before
he did, that the runes came
from a time before time.
And there's a great little
thing in the old Norse,
Ginnregen, that were shaped
by the high holy rulers,
the people who existed,
the gods before the gods,
Fimbulthulr who were
colored by the great singer.
Fimbulthulr is the great singer.
A Thule, in the Norse tradition
is a lot like a cantor,
sings the religious songs.
"Fimbul" means
"great" or "super."
And that tells us not
only did the runes exist
in a time before time, that
they were subtle energies,
but that they were also
vibratory frequencies that
connected with consciousness.
And he was able to gather them
and then teach these runes
to the different
types of beings,
including humans, in ways
that we best understood.
>> REGINA: So they're kind
of foundational symbols
representing them,
sound vibration.
>> OLSEN: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> OLSEN: And we actually didn't
get the symbols until a tribe
of the Goths from lower Sweden
were a mercenary troupe that
went throughout Europe plying
their wares as mercenaries.
And they brought back with
them, in the Gothland,
the writings of what I
believe to be the Estruscans.
Because the Etruscan
alphabet looks
a lot like the runic alphabet.
>> REGINA: I was just going
to ask you that, yeah, yeah.
>> OLSEN: Yeah, and
the term Erliaz,
which is what they were,
actually shows up in the Bible.
They were the Heruli.
They were one of
the Gothic tribes
that were fighting against
the Roman Empire at the time.
And when they came back into
Scandinavia, around the year--
2000 years ago,
around 0 BC, they
brought with them this writing.
And they taught it to people.
And nowadays, if you were
to look on a rune stone,
you would see a
term, "ek Erliaz," It
means "I am the rune master."
the Gothic tribe of
the Erliaz became
known as the rune masters.
And they were the ones who
actually gave the runes
their shape that
we see them today
and their phonetic values
as we know them today,
pairing with the
wisdom of Odin, as he
brought their vibratory
energies at the numinous level
into the physical level.
This gave the physical
form for the runes
to exist in our reality.
>> REGINA: Do they at all
overlap with druidic symbols,
for example?
>> OLSEN: Now the Druids--
>> REGINA: Not really.
>> OLSEN: --have the ogham,
which are all based off
of the trees.
>> REGINA: Trees.
Yeah, the alphabet of trees.
>> OLSEN: Right, and
they're different.
>> REGINA: And it's
totally different.
>> OLSEN: Totally different.
>> REGINA: And so
only the Etruscan,
nothing to be found in other
hieroglyphics, for example,
in Egyptian times.
It's its own thing
you're saying.
>> OLSEN: Right, it could.
>> REGINA: Could be, yeah.
>> OLSEN: But for
the most part--
>> REGINA: For the most
part, it's its own thing.
>> OLSEN: --it's
its own thing, yeah.
>> REGINA: Yeah, OK, so now you
have been engaging with ruins.
>> OLSEN: Mm-hmm.
>> REGINA: So is it the same
as any other divination tool,
or is it special?
Or does it--
I'll say does it offer
maybe more embedded
or esoteric information
than other divination tools,
or is it what you put into it?
>> OLSEN: Here's the fun part.
Runes were never used
as a divination tool
until the 1980s.
>> REGINA: Really?
>> OLSEN: Really.
That's my--
>> REGINA: Well, that's
when everything came up
as a divination tool.
>> OLSEN: That's my best
research is I could not
determine that until the
1980s, they were never used
as divination.
I've done some deep
digging into the lore
to try to find out
where they're at,
and there are a
couple of references
to Norse divination,
definitely horses,
and birds, different kinds
of allegories in that way.
And there is a term
called blot tines, which
means blood sticks, that
were shaken that maybe,
but we don't know that
they were really runes.
There was some
historical accounts
of marking things
on pieces of wood
and then scattering
them across a cloth,
but I don't know
that they were runes.
However, what we know for
a fact from the literature
of the Norse people themselves
and from the archaeology
from the ruins that
were actually dug up
is we know for a fact that
there were magical tools,
that there were tools used for
transformation, for healing,
for building wealth,
and for making
life a much better place.
>> REGINA: By simply
embodying the symbol itself
as a representation of
the great creative force.
>> OLSEN: I'll go
even a step further,
by embodying the sound.
>> REGINA: The sound of it.
OK, so each rune
represents a sound.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
That's one of the
great things that I
love about the work of Jonathan
Goldman, the sound healing.
He talks about the
frequency with intention
is manifestation or healing.
Well, with the runes, you've
got-- say, the rune fehu.
It deals with value,
with the exchange
of energy, information,
money, time, effort,
that sort of thing, fehu,
and it has the F sound.
It looks like the letter
F. It sounds like F,
and so you have now that
FF sound, the fehu sound,
with the intention of value.
And so that leads to
your manifestation arc.
And the old form of Norse
magic was called Galdr,
and it means basically
singing the runes.
And there are ample
references throughout the lore
about singing the runes.
>> REGINA: So a
healer of the day--
a great magician
healer of the day
would have used incantations
when working with someone
that needed rebalancing.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
And one of those healing phrases
that comes to us to this day
is found on numerous artifacts,
and the word is Laukaz.
Laukaz alu.
Alu is kind of
like the Norse Om.
We can get into that one too.
>> REGINA: Yeah, do.
>> OLSEN: And if they were to
sing Laukaz Alu (SPEAKING) that
brings that healing energy
into the person that
they're directing it towards.
>> REGINA: So when you were
starting to really engross
yourself into the rediscovery
of your Norse roots so to speak,
what area of it were you
particularly fascinated with?
Was it as a teacher?
Was it as a healer, a warrior?
What really drew you in?
>> OLSEN: The
ascension potential.
>> REGINA: So the
spiritual ascension aspect.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
The way I like to look at
runes today is we like--
we see runes as these
little characters carved
on pieces of wood and stone.
>> REGINA: Oh, hey, you can
buy them at Barnes and Noble,
right?
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Toss them
on the table, pick one,
and you have no idea what
you're supposed to do with it.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
But the real rune, the
way I like to think of it
is that they are the
subtle connections
between the subtle layers
of our consciousness
and the subtle
layers of existence.
And you don't need the
actual shape, or the sound,
or the name to tap into that.
For example, two of
the runes that I always
talk about when I'm
teaching rune classes
is mannaz and ansuz.
Mannaz is a rune of
people of humanity.
Us gathered here together.
This is mannaz.
Us communicating and
talking back and forth,
that is the rune ansuz.
And the exchange of information
could be even the rune of gebo.
Not the pieces that are carved,
or written down, or painted,
but the actual living,
breathing energies that
is vital in our world
and within our beings.
>> REGINA: But when you work
with a person individually,
do you employ the use of
the runes to be given subtle
information to that person,
access points to that person?
>> OLSEN: Mm-hmm.
In fact, how they
will do that is
I'll teach them how to
create their own little rune
script based on what
they are looking for.
We'll talk about what
their challenges are,
what some of the
difficulties are,
what their own strengths are.
And as we're going
through and recording
what these things
are, I'll think,
oh, this is a rune that you
could use because maybe it
correlates to inner strength,
which would be eihwaz,
or maybe you do need
some more aggressiveness
in your life, which
would be thurisaz.
And so I will teach them
how to sing those runes,
and how to bring those energies
into their body, their being,
more importantly, how
to go out into the world
and live those energies so
that they are manifesting them
through direct action.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and do you find
that a lot of people that find
their way to you, like you also
have this memory in their being
that this may have been a
culture of theirs that they
resonated within the past
or embodied in the past?
>> OLSEN: Yeah, a lot
of those people do.
>> REGINA: I would think so.
>> OLSEN: But what's more
interesting to that point is I
treat English as a sacred
language because a lot
of our words that we have like
day comes from the rune dagaz.
The word year comes
from the rune jera.
Letters like F, S, T, B,
R, C, and I, S, these all
are runic letters that have
the same phonetic value that we
do today, and the runes
look exactly the same.
And words like mother,
father, sister, brother,
I can give you a
little bit of training,
and you'll actually be able
to go to a 2,000-year-old rune
stone and read those words
for yourself because they were
spoken in the exact same way
2,000 years ago as we say them
today.
And so the runes are deeply
embedded in our psyche
already through the
language that we speak.
>> REGINA: Yeah, fascinating.
And one thing that
has shadowed humanity
is their shadow the whole time,
and the multidimensionality
of life, and living
within the realm
of elementals and other beings.
This has been with us.
And a lot of people come
to you to work with you
because they're being plagued
either by their own shadow
or by someone shadowing them.
[LAUGHS]
So let's talk about--
you talk about something
called the golden
shadow, which I mentioned
when I introduced you.
Let's talk about
the golden shadow.
I also want to go
into elementals
and how you work with people
in managing that interface
with other realms.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely,
the golden shadow,
we're kind of getting into
some Jungian territory,
which is beautiful because Jung
has done a lot of work with
the Norse tradition,
and with the archetypes,
and that sort of thing.
And one of the areas
of spirituality
that has kind of always
bugged me is everything
has to be peace,
love, and light.
We have to be nice and happy.
And if we have something
bad, or negative, or angry,
or any of the stuff,
we just suppress it.
Be happy and nice, and it's
like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
One of the lessons that the
runes taught me over the years
is there are definitely some
happy runes, like wunjo,
like jera, success, joy, all
of these kind of happiness.
But it also has the
thurisaz, which is
about aggression and violence.
It has naudhiz, which is about
neediness and constraint.
It has hagalaz, which is about
disruption and destruction.
These are very
necessary elements
when working with the runes.
>> REGINA: Well, they are
commonly accepted emotions.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: They are part of
the human emotional structure,
whether we like it or not.
>> OLSEN: Exactly.
And seeing all of the
peace, love, and light,
and let's be happy and
ignore the negative,
I saw so many
devastating things happen
by people ignoring some
of the darker stuff
that they needed to look at.
>> REGINA: Well, this was
the downside of the new age--
>> OLSEN: Right
>> REGINA: --honestly is
the belief that you dream it
so and you're going to have
a happy outcome forever,
and that's the
end of that story.
And, of course, most people
didn't experience it.
And then disillusionment comes
in, and senses of failure
start occurring and
so forth because we've
been ignoring the fact these
are, depending on who we are,
parts of our nature.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Yeah, so now
look at-- let's look at how
the runes and how the Norse
way embodies and embraces these
and then helps transform
overly negative--
you know what I'm saying--
emotions into something
a little more functional.
>> OLSEN: Right, and
specifically with shadow work,
I tend to work with pagan men
because we have a little bit
of a subset of challenges
that we're dealing with.
>> REGINA: A little?
>> OLSEN: Yeah.
>> REGINA: [LAUGHS]
>> OLSEN: Just a little bit.
>> REGINA: Like what is a man
in today's culture, right?
It's a big, big issue
right now with men--
>> OLSEN: Exactly
>> REGINA: --globally.
>> OLSEN: And taking it from the
heathen, the Norse perspective,
I can actually hit this head
on, straight up, and say, no,
you are messing up.
These are the things
that are the problems.
We need not suck up
and deal with it,
but you need to accept it.
You need to look at this
negative part of you, the thing
that you don't like to see.
You have to stop, take
that moment, look at it.
But what is it really
trying to say to you?
Instead of, like, I know
I have this aggression.
I know I have this anger.
I'm really angry
at this one person.
Why?
Let's feel that anger.
Let's get into that one.
Let's really produce that anger,
express it right here right
now, and let it out so
we get underneath it
and go, oh, because I have
a level of self-respect
that I need to honor more.
And this is more about
me setting my boundaries
and that I can be more
clear about the boundaries
that I set.
I can still be
assertive, but now I
don't need to be angry anymore.
And that's the golden shadow.
It comes when we deal with
whatever that anger is--
>> REGINA: As a gift
>> OLSEN: --right up front.
Right, exactly.
What is it that you're hiding?
What is your
superpower that you're
ignoring because you're just--
you've got the hatred.
You've got the anger.
You've got the fear.
You've got the envy.
Let's head those things face
on, embrace them, make them
bigger, stronger, talk to them.
What are you trying to teach me?
What is that they need
to learn from this?
And then you find
that golden shadow
that you've been hiding from
yourself, and you're like, wow,
I didn't realize I was that good
of a person this entire time.
I thought I was just this jerk.
I thought I was just this
horrible, awful person,
but, really, I'm better
than that underneath?
Yeah.
>> REGINA: So how much of
this is the breaking down
of a patriarchal mindset that
has existed for thousands
of years?
>> OLSEN: Oh, it's 100%
our cultural upbringing,
and that's one of the
absolute things I teach.
>> REGINA: I mean,
masculinity versus patriarchy.
>> OLSEN: Right.
>> REGINA: Two different
things, and this is the struggle
we're in right now.
And in a little bit, I'm going
to load it toward the women,
so go ahead.
>> OLSEN: That is absolutely it.
I teach people to get in touch
with their core, the identity
of who they are,
and sometimes that
comes from listing
what are your values.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> OLSEN: List out your
values, and then go, wait,
that's not really me.
That's not really me.
>> REGINA: That's
what I've been taught.
That's a program.
>> OLSEN: Yeah, exactly.
And I love the chaos magicians
have this great saying
that I think embodies it best.
I am that I am not.
It is by identifying what
has been glommed on to you
culturally--
>> REGINA: What
you are not, yeah.
>> OLSEN: --the
whole patriarchy,
the whole church upbringing,
the whole school system,
the parents, the expectations
of who you're supposed to be are
the shadows that we carry with
us because we want to please
these people.
They are our authorities.
We took it on, so, well,
they must know better.
So I got to be this.
And then we get to a
certain stage in life
and they served
you at that point.
But now they are a detriment.
How do you clear them out?
And that comes from
self-identifying
who are you at the core?
What is it that you are not?
And then we begin to honor that
to help you at that one time,
but now we embrace the
core of who you are.
>> REGINA: So let me
ask you something.
When you work with these men
and you strip everything away,
you get past all
of the programs,
you get past the patriarchal
mindset that is a program,
what do you often find is at
the very bottom of a lot of men
that would surprise women?
>> OLSEN: I'm not going
to say the word compassion
because the word's not
necessarily compassion,
but there is a deep loving
connection that comes from
the sacred masculine.
It is definitely
a directed energy.
It is more, like, focused,
and here's where we're going,
and where we are.
There is a sense of
confidence that comes through
because it was like, oh,
I get this connection,
and I can put it into direction.
Now those are vague
terms, absolutely,
because I've seen in
every individual person,
it comes out vastly different.
And that's one of the
things I actually key into
is I'm never going to tell a
person who they are at the core
and what that is that
their foundation.
I'm going to let them
discover it because--
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's
the best way, yeah.
>> OLSEN: --it really
surprises them sometimes.
And I have not found the case,
but I'm aware of the case--
some of the old
Vedic traditions--
the tale of Jaya and
Vijaya coming to the world
to be demons so that they
could bring some better--
the avatars into the world to
make the world a better place.
And so they had to be these
horrible, awful people
throughout their lifetimes.
I have not
encountered that ever.
But it's usually people
have startled themselves,
like, wow, I need to
be more aggressive.
The core of me is actually more
outgoing and more aggressive
instead of being passive and
accepting, you know, yeah.
And then the opposite
has been true.
It was like, wait a minute.
I don't need to be so
active, and aggressive,
and violent towards people?
I can actually be
calm and listen?
That's what my higher
being wants me to be?
It's like, it's
different, but if there
is a thread that
goes through, there
is a more loving,
deeper connection
that happens because they have
that vulnerability to be open.
They have this
inner strength where
they can let themselves
be vulnerable,
and then they open up even more.
And then the
awareness to say no.
Here's my boundary of what
I can't be open about.
>> REGINA: A few years ago,
it never made it to the air,
but I did a little experimental
roundtable show with men.
And we're talking
about the state
of masculinity and such
today, and we ended up
talking about
women because women
have this kind of general sense
because of the programming
of the last thousands of years.
Oftentimes, women have a deep
sense of potential abandonment
because they were made
to be reliant upon men
during the patriarchal years.
That's just now
coming to a point
where women don't
need men for survival,
but those feelings are still
pixels within our memory,
within the aura of
this in the past.
So women are left with this
feeling of, like, anxiety,
competition with each other,
and potential abandonment
as deep core issues.
And we were talking
about all this,
and as it turned out at the
end of the conversation--
I had three generations of men.
It turned out that
each one of them
stated they had this almost
inexplicably kind of deep love
for women that women
can't feel anymore,
that doesn't show itself in
an overt way for most women.
They're not feeling it, even
with their partners oftentimes.
What do you find
when you dig down
to the bottom of the men in
this work, the shadow work?
Where are women?
What is their relationship
to the feminine?
And I know everyone's
different, but has anything
emerged as kind of a
portrait of mankind
and their feelings toward women?
Is it fear?
Is it love?
Is it some kind of a strange
combination of the two,
or even an envy of some kind?
Procreation of some-- in the
day of feminism, that was, oh,
well, men are envious
and afraid of women
because they couldn't procreate.
I think that's a little pat.
What have you found?
>> OLSEN: Fear.
>> REGINA: Fear.
Fear of the feminine.
>> OLSEN: Fear of more of
how they're being perceived.
Some of the men, it's--
>> REGINA: Tell me about that.
>> OLSEN: Yeah, some of the
men is they have that deep love
for women.
They have that intent
of letting women
know that they want the women
to feel protected, and honored.
But there are other forces
out there, other men,
and other situations
that the patriarchy--
I hate the word
toxic masculinity,
but they're out there.
And even though they know
at the core of their being
they're a good
person, they don't
want to be seen as some
of these other guys.
And so they tend
to be closed off.
They tend to shut
down, or they're
more protective of
themselves because they
don't want to be offensive.
They don't want to be
rude or anything like that
to another woman.
But some of these guys who
are aggressive, and just rude,
and out there, they've got
fear of rejection going on.
They may have approached
a woman or, even when they
were younger, a girl
in the wrong way
because they were learning, and
then they were teased for it.
They were harassed
for it, and it
created this vicious cycle of
I'm approaching the wrong way.
Oh, it's their problem.
They're the one
that's this problem,
but it's really fear of how they
are interacting with the world.
>> REGINA: When you
get into the shadow.
>> OLSEN: Fear of
being perceived,
and there's a lot of
shame that's out there.
Like, these guys that
are afraid of how they're
going to be perceived
by women, they're
ashamed of some of the toxic
traits that are out there.
The guys who are very
toxic and aggressive,
they're ashamed
of the way they've
been treated in the past, and
they're projecting that shadow
on to other people.
That's the thing about shadows.
We project it onto people
instead of looking inside.
And so their shadow
of rejection,
their shadow of fear,
of shame, all of that,
they're projecting
onto the women,
but, really, it's
all fear based.
And they have to
address that fear.
>> REGINA: So how would you--
for the women watching
this because there
are a lot of women
watching this,
what would you say to women
at large having worked
with a male shadow quite a bit?
And we're going to get into
the whole pagan masculinity
thing here deep and raw, right?
What would you say to women
to help them understand
men, the men in their lives a
little bit better after working
with their shadow?
>> OLSEN: My answer is going
to be a little bit off the cuff
for this one.
>> REGINA: That's OK because I
know you normally work with men
on this, so I get it.
>> OLSEN: My answer
for this would be,
men and women the same,
is focus on yourself.
Focus on improving who you
are at the core of your being,
living your authenticity
as much as you can,
and sloughing off all of the
fear, all of the expectations,
all of the rest
of it because what
happens if you're
living from the core
and you're like a bright
shining light at the core
of your authenticity, the
people who are not in resonance
to that will just fall away.
And that can be painful.
>> REGINA: It can be, but this
is the truth for living life
in general.
>> OLSEN: Exactly, and the
people who are in resonance are
going to start coming towards
you because your energies are
going to be a frequency.
And so if you're having
those difficulties
with men or with other
people, honor the fact
that they're going through
their own difficulties,
their own problems.
Realize that their anger,
their aggression, their--
all of this stuff is not
really an aspect of you.
It's an aspect that they
need to deal with themselves.
>> REGINA: Projected, yeah.
>> OLSEN: And I teach
guys this is your problem.
You need to deal with this one.
And as we are, at the
core of our beings,
living our own authenticity,
these people will fall away,
and the right people
will start coming to you.
So I would say my best
advice for everyone
is focus on yourself.
>> REGINA: Yeah, just being
your authentic, true self.
Let your own light shine,
and sometimes your shadow
is going to be there too.
>> OLSEN: It's always
going to be there.
>> REGINA: And another thing
that was interesting in these
conversations I had with
men, and one of the men
in particular who is Italian,
who does a lot of this kind
of work--
a lot of men's group work,
shadow work, and so forth--
whenever I would see
him I would say--
at some point, I would use the
word happy in our conversation.
And he said,
Regina, when are you
going to understand
that's not a man's word?
Happy is not a man's word.
It's a woman's word.
You all want to be happy
together, talking, sharing,
communing with each other.
That's not a word that
really represents men.
It can be passionate.
It can be a lot of things,
but happy isn't our word.
And I had to really
think about that.
Then I started looking at
men and realizing happy
is not their word.
What do you have
to say about that?
>> OLSEN: It's true, to the
dismay of my wife and other
people in my life.
I told them years
ago I realized I
don't want to pursue happiness.
Happiness is not on
my course of life.
I'm pursuing purpose, and I
have a sense of fulfillment,
a sense of relaxation,
my destressing
is when I get
things done that are
in alignment with my purpose.
However, I have this
caveat with myself
because I do embrace
the feminine within,
and I do accept that I have
feminine traits as all men do.
And if we ignore that we
have our own feminine traits,
then we're denying a very major
powerful part of ourselves.
So to honor that, I say if
I'm on the path of purpose
and I am pursuing my purpose
with passion, and integrity,
and happiness finds
its way to me,
I will embrace that happiness.
I will accept it, and I will
enjoy it for all that it is.
>> REGINA: I love it.
That's a perfect response.
But this is a problem
between men and women,
and women usually find their
happy moments with other women.
And also because
you're looking at--
a man's purpose also can
be highly individual,
more so than women's.
Where women are working toward
a collaboration-- it's natural.
If you're going to care for
your tribe, for your family,
and so forth, you
have to work on behalf
of the whole more
collaboratively in a more
sharing manner.
You have to be able to work
out disputes between people
a little more
efficiently as a woman.
You have to be able
to bridge, negotiate,
mediate, and so forth.
And so all of those
things are really
done toward what we call in the
spirit of living a life that
has happiness at the core.
And I remember he also
said maybe a better word
for us would be joy.
>> OLSEN: OK.
>> REGINA: The joy of having
finished something is not
the same as a women's
version of happy.
>> OLSEN: That's exactly one
of the things I teach in all
of my men's classes and
all of my men's groups.
And any of the
guys who come to me
for some one-on-one guidance,
the thing that I emphasize
over, and over, and over,
and over again is, as a man,
we are biologically
wired to need
occasional moments of solitude.
We have to have the man cave.
We have to have the den.
I've got my ritual space
that I have at home.
We have to have that alone time.
That is how we recharge
our testosterone.
That's how we zero out, how
we decompress, and destress.
And women need to
bond with each other.
They need to get
together, and this
is a lot of times
some of the problems
that happen in relationships--
>> REGINA: Oh, hugely.
>> OLSEN: --is the woman wants
to have her connection time.
The man needs the alone time.
She'll have that
feel of abandonment.
Like, why is he
leaving me alone?
And I say, stop, you do
need your alone time.
You do need your solitude, and
you need to communicate that.
Say, hey, babe, I love you.
I want to be there for you.
Can you give me 30 minutes?
I'll come back,
and I promise you
we can deal with this together.
And I teach them
that communication.
Just that saying I
need this time for me.
>> REGINA: That's really
important because when we were
living in tribal times, the
men went and did their thing.
The women were with
women, and that's--
you'd sleep together, but that
was kind of the extent of it.
Now we're all one big happy--
what do you call
modern humanity,
where we're all supposed to
be equal on all, in all ways,
on all levels,
and we're supposed
to be able to live in a
nuclear family environment
where everybody
is being honored?
And women want their husband
to be their bestie, right?
And the men want
to, like, get away
a lot of the time for
their own purposes.
And there are.
I've had huge misunderstandings
of this in my relationships
with men thinking,
wow, they're grouchy,
kind of isolating themselves.
And I took it personally.
I took it personally
my whole life,
really, because I didn't
understand anything about men.
I wasn't raised around any.
There were no boys,
no cousins, nothing.
I didn't know
anything about boys.
And so it's taken me a really
long time to understand
we are essentially different.
Purpose is more of a
man's way, and that
doesn't have to be
taken personally
to us, who are looking for that
happy, wonderful connection.
>> OLSEN: Right, and I
think, as human beings,
since we have the masculine
and feminine within each of us,
we can have it all.
>> REGINA: Yeah, I think so.
We just have to, like you
say, have the language
to honor each other and what
we each need because you
have to give too to your wife.
She's going to want to.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: She's going to
want to have her nice, fun,
connected time with you so--
>> OLSEN: And she gets it.
>> REGINA: And she gets it.
There you go.
I know you're a team player.
Let's talk about--
in the time left,
I want to talk
about the work you
do with the elementals, which
were part of the ancient way
and the tribal way
of understanding.
We're living in a
multidimensional world
with all kinds of entities
surrounding us at all times
from wonderful guiding forces
to irritating ones, wee folk.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely, and
that's one of the areas I do
specialize in is paranormal
protection because over
the years that I've worked with
haunted houses and people with
paranormal problems, I
have found that in over 90%
of the cases where there's
something bad going
on in the house, it's a thought
form or it's poltergeist.
It's self-generated.
The humans in the
house are creating--
>> REGINA: Egregore is
another word for it.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
Egregore, right?
And that's part of the things I
kind of help teach people to--
I teach people to
communicate with an egregore
rather than try to get
rid of it because they're
a little bit more intelligent.
>> REGINA: Well, let's about
the nature of self-created
entities.
>> OLSEN: Those-- and that's the
majority of the time that are
thought forms, and the Norse
have a word for that one,
Hugham, basically thought
shape, thought form.
It's still the same word.
It is when you have an obsessive
emotion over, and over,
and over, and over again, like
fear, fear, fear, fear, fear,
you will create a ball of
energy that is now loaded
with fear energy, and it lives.
It exists.
It's not an evil thing.
>> REGINA: It's its
own entity so to speak.
>> OLSEN: But when
it needs a recharge,
it'll poke with
some fear energy.
And you're like, what's here?
What's bothering?
What's happening?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> OLSEN: And it gets a charge,
and it's like, oh, thank you.
Or could be anger, or
it could be hatred.
It could be blind love.
It could be over-emphasized joy.
It could be any of these
kind of emotional states,
and it will poke a person.
And if that person's like,
there's something here,
there's something scary, they're
creating a poltergeist effect
through their own telekinesis.
Suddenly, something goes
flying across the room.
This thing is fed.
It's like, oh, wow,
I can poke you.
Something goes flying
across the room.
I get fed even more?
This is great.
That's 90% of the cases or more.
The rest of the cases
are hidden folk.
>> REGINA: Yeah, hidden folk.
The wee folk, the fairies, and
the leprechauns, and the silfs,
and so forth, a lot of
the Devic realm that
is not just a projection
but a part of nature.
>> OLSEN: Absolutely.
There are natural-- and that's
one of the things I really
emphasize in all of
my paranormal work
is the paranormal is normal.
Supernatural is natural.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> OLSEN: We co-exist as
multidimensional beings.
And when there's a problem,
elemental, in the house,
it's usually because the people
in the house upset something.
They had a stone in their yard.
They moved the stone
over, it disrupted
the house of this being.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> OLSEN: Or they're
in a logging community,
and they cut down some trees
where these things live.
And they're like, you
messed with my house.
I'm going to come
mess with your house.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> OLSEN: In Norse lore is
rife with tiny little examples.
Like, if you notice in your
doorway some straw or some dirt
and you don't
clean it up, that's
a little bugger putting some
stuff there to test you--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> OLSEN: --because
they like clean homes,
and they like things
to be nice and orderly.
And so if you clean
that up and you
notice these little
problems going on,
one of the best things
I try to do to people
is tell them to create a little
alter in their home, just
a little place.
>> REGINA: A place where
they can be honored.
>> OLSEN: Where they
can be honored, right.
Maybe put some oatmeal there.
Maybe put some milk.
If that doesn't work, some
whiskey, some tobacco,
some sage, something
as an offering,
and then replenish it.
Stay on top of it.
Don't let it go bad.
And if you do see a
wild animal or an animal
coming and eating it,
partaking of it, let it.
That's just how it is received.
And all you're really doing
is just honoring that force.
And then sometimes it takes
a little bit extra work.
Like, we'll sit
down, and we'll try
to open a line of communication.
They don't communicate
in words like we do.
They communicate in
what I call impressions.
It's just like you'll get
the impression of a hole
in the ground where there
used to be something,
and they want that
something back.
And then you're like, did you
move something in your yard?
Is there something?
Oh, yeah, I wanted a
better view of this tree
over there, so I moved
this rock out of the way.
I'm like, you need
to put it back.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] Yeah.
>> OLSEN: And then when
they put the rock back,
they make the little offerings.
They do their mea culpas.
>> REGINA: The hidden
folk are happy.
>> OLSEN: Right, the
hidden folk are happy,
and you go back to
peacefully coexisting.
>> REGINA: Let's talk
about the ones we create.
Now we'll go away from the
hidden folk in the elementals
into the ones we create.
How do you deal--
once you have created an
egregore or a thought form that
is a projection of your
own repeated emotions,
how do you then kind
of get rid of it?
>> OLSEN: One of the best
stories I tell when I teach
seance classes is a
story of not of my own,
but growing up in the
spiritualist community and with
the different seance groups,
one of the people I got to know
a little bit was
Dr. Robert Bradley,
inventor of the Bradley method.
It was actually my mom's doctor
when she was pregnant with me.
And if you ever saw the movie
in the '70s, "The Changeling"
with George C Scott--
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> OLSEN: --that is
about Dr. Robert Bradley.
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>> OLSEN: And his story as
a materialist reductionist
doctor, atheist, there
is no paranormal.
There is no supernatural.
There's nothing.
In the middle of the night
goes to sit in his parlor,
watches his cigar lighter lift
up off the table, and drop.
From that moment
on, fear, scared.
Like, oh, these
stories are real.
This is actually happening.
The energy in the house
threw him down-- tried
to throw him down the stairs.
It broke a mirror.
He had a scar on his neck
from where the mirror broke.
It was so drastic
that they actually
were able to make a movie
about how the whole telekinesis
and how the thought
form was there.
But throughout the seances
and throughout everything,
he realized there
was a little boy
in that house, a little
spirit of a boy in the house.
And, of course, the boy is
scared to death of this thought
form that the doctor created.
And when the doctor
changed his attitude
and realized I made
this thought form,
here's this little boy scared--
>> REGINA: Yeah, frightened.
Yeah.
>> OLSEN: --how can I help you?
What can you do to help you?
And I realize I'm no longer
attached to this thing.
The thought form
lost its energy.
It lost its control,
and they were
able to have great seances and
great interactions with spirits
from that moment on
because he realized
he was creating his own fear.
He was realized he
was perpetuating
the cycle of negative energy.
And when you feel
that coming in,
realize it's not coming from
you, and you can stop it.
The number one thing
I teach anybody,
anywhere, anytime
that if they're
under the attack of
a negative entity,
no matter what kind, it's
self-created, or an egregore,
or anything, the first thing
that you want to do is laugh.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> OLSEN: Laugh until
your eyes crinkle.
>> REGINA: Yeah, so the levity
of it breaks that energy
pattern.
>> OLSEN: It becomes poisonous.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> OLSEN: That thing is
trying to tap you with anger,
and if you laugh back,
it's going to go.
You're giving me--
oh, I'm out of here.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> OLSEN: I don't want this.
So if you laugh at it--
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> OLSEN: --honesty,
it's not going to take it
as an offensive.
It's not going to go,
oh, you're offending me.
It's going to feel that energy
and be like, this is poisonous.
>> REGINA: It will
be repulsed by it.
>> OLSEN: It'll be repulsed,
and it will leave you alone.
>> REGINA: Well, let me ask you
something very contemporary,
OK, and that is the whole notion
of a collective egregore that
is being and has been created
by the COVID-19 global shutdown.
>> OLSEN: This is a
very interesting one,
and I asked the
whisperers about this.
I work with a black mirror.
That's my primary tool when
I'm sitting in meditation
communicating with him,
and I wanted some insights
to what was going on.
And they told me that we
are on a singular path.
There is only one
outcome to this one,
but they weren't
going to tell me.
I'm like, oh, come on, guys.
So they weren't going
to give me prophecy,
but they said, what you
can do with this energy--
and they say to treat
this zeitgeist energy--
in fact, they don't want
to use the word egregore.
They're poking don't
call it an egregore.
Call it a zeitgeist.
>> REGINA: A zeitgeist.
Yeah.
>> OLSEN: It's a very--
>> REGINA: That's good.
>> OLSEN: --similar energy,
but it's used differently.
The zeitgeist is an
energy that we can either
get inundated with, like if
it's a wave pouring over us,
and we can get drowned,
and sucked into it,
and just pulled down,
or you can choose
to use this energy as a way
that you could ride on top of
to propel you into a higher--
>> REGINA: Total agreed.
>> OLSEN: --state of being.
>> REGINA: Totally agreed.
>> OLSEN: And it's us to decide
if we get inundated or excel.
>> REGINA: We
choose the outcome.
>> OLSEN: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Any final words about
the work you're doing and--
or any other little
piece that we
didn't get to in terms of
the magic of the Norse way
and of the runes before
we sign off here?
>> OLSEN: Let me share one
little technique that I love
to share with people
with working with runes.
I call it the wunjo
nauthiz shift.
Wunjo, we talked about, is a
rune of joy, about happiness,
about having.
Nauthiz is a rune of needs,
and necessity, constraints.
And the way I teach the wunjo
nauthiz shift in people is it's
a reframing of your situation.
Let's say it's the
end of the month.
You paid all your
bills, and you go
to look at your bank account,
and you've got $20 left.
A nauthiz perspective is like,
[GASP] I've got $20 left.
What am I going to do?
But you can go let's
look at it from a wunjo.
I paid everything, and I
have some money left over.
And because you're able
to make that shift,
the universe is a reflection
of itself in all ways.
And if you're in this
constraint, this necessity,
neediness mode, you're going
to end up with more neediness.
>> REGINA: Contraction
versus expansion.
>> OLSEN: Exactly.
But if you can be
in that wunjo state,
that happy, joyful state
of, OK, I have $20--
this is cool, and
everything's paid off.
I am provided for--
then that will reflect
back on to you.
That's one of the most simplest
but powerful ways I teach--
>> REGINA: Very powerful.
>> OLSEN: --people to the
runes is to shift the way you
interact with the world and
see the world so that the world
meets you at that
energetic level.
>> REGINA: Wonderful.
That was-- thank you
for sharing that.
I love what you have--
I mean, I've seen you at
Gaia through the years
and I love the way
you've progressed
in your own life
and the way you've
more consolidated this
work you're doing--
the pagan men work, the shadow
work, and your work with runes.
And you also have
a book, which we're
going to talk about in just
a second as we sign off here.
So I'm happy we're able to
do this finally, Kaedrich.
>> OLSEN: Me too.
>> REGINA: And thank you
for all your hard work,
and thank you for bringing
some of the Norse magic to us.
>> OLSEN: Thank you
for this opportunity.
This was really wonderful.
I'm enjoying it very much.
>> REGINA: If you'd
like to learn more about
Kaedrich's work, you
can go to Kaedrich.com.
His book, "Runes
For Transformation"
is available on Amazon as well.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]